# Human-Activity-Recognition---Final-Masters-Project
Recognition of human activity has a wide range of applications in medical research and human survey systems. Technological developments, notably medical advancements, have greatly enhanced our quality of life, resulting in an increase in life expectancy. This has resulted in an increase in the number of old people. Health-care facilities are now more than ever required to care for a high number of senior people, which is one of the contributing causes in growing health-care expenditures. In order to stay competitive, hospitals and other health-care organisations have sought different cost-cutting techniques. Technological developments that can make hospital working conditions far more efficient are one option being studied. Various communication technologies, mobile computer devices, micro-embedded gadgets, and sensors can help medical professionals be more efficient and enhance health-care systems.
Different machine learning and deep learning models have been employed to analyse human behaviour in recent years. Researchers nowadays typically utilise cell phones or smart home sensors to collect data on human behaviour. In this research, we will be using two different datasets, one publicly available UCI HAR dataset, and another dataset which is collected using a multi-sensors configuration setup done on Coventry University laboratory. We evaluate these datasets using machine learning and deep learning algorithms to detect human behaviours, which are now extensively utilised for a variety of reasons, including physical and mental health monitoring. The goal of this research is to create machine learning or deep learning models that can properly identify the activities that people are doing using data from multi-sensor configurations. We have used Logistic  regression, Linear SVC, Decision tree, random Forest, K-Means Clustering, CNN, LSTM and a Hybrid CNN- LSTM models to create a human activity detection system. The performance of implemented models will be hyper parameter tuned using grid search technique. We assess the models' performance and give recommendations to increase their accuracy in the future.
